---
title: "About"
date: 2018-02-13T00:01:09-05:00
draft: false
---

[Naruto] is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Masashi
Kishimoto. It tells the story of Naruto Uzumaki, an adolescent ninja who
searches for recognition from his peers and the village and also dreams of
becoming the Hokage, the leader of his village. The story is in two parts, the
first set in Naruto's pre-teen years, and the second in his teens. The series is
based on two one-shot manga by Kishimoto: Karakuri (1995), which earned
Kishimoto an honorable mention in Shueisha's monthly Hop Step Award the
following year, and Naruto (1997).

Naruto was serialized in Shueisha's magazine, Weekly Shōnen Jump from 1999 to
2014, and released in tankōbon (book) form in 72 volumes. The manga was adapted
into an anime television series produced by Studio Pierrot and Aniplex, which
broadcast 220 episodes in Japan from 2002 to 2007; the English adaptation of the
series aired on Cartoon Network from 2005 to 2009. Naruto: Shippuden, a sequel
to the original series, premiered in Japan in 2007, and ended in 2017, after 500
episodes. The English adaptation was broadcast on Disney XD from 2009 to 2011,
and then switched to Adult Swim's Toonami block in January 2014. Besides the
anime series, Studio Pierrot has developed eleven movies and eleven original
video animations (OVAs). Other Naruto-related merchandise includes light novels,
video games, and trading cards developed by several companies.

Viz Media licensed the manga and anime for North American production and
serialized Naruto in their digital Weekly Shonen Jump magazine. The anime series
began airing in the United States and Canada in 2005, and in the United Kingdom
and Australia in 2006 and 2007, respectively. The films and most OVAs from the
series were also released by Viz, with the first film premiering in movie
theaters. Viz Media began streaming the two anime series on their streaming
service Neon Alley in December 2012. The story of Naruto continues with Naruto's
son, Boruto Uzumaki, in Boruto: Naruto Next Generations: Boruto wishes to create
his own ninja way instead of following his father's.

As of 2017, Naruto is the third best-selling manga series in history, selling
more than 220 million copies worldwide in 35 countries outside Japan. It has
become one of Viz Media's best-selling manga series; their English translations
of the volumes have appeared on USA Today and The New York Times bestseller list
several times, and the seventh volume won a Quill Award in 2006. Reviewers
praised the manga's character development, strong storylines, and well-executed
fight scenes, though some felt the fight scenes slowed the story down. Critics
noted that the manga, which has a coming-of-age theme, makes use of cultural
references from Japanese mythology and Confucianism.

[Naruto]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Naruto
